so Jacob went on his journey and came to
the land of the people of the east and
he looked and saw a well in the field
and behold there were three flocks of
sheep lying by it for out of that well
they watered the flocks a large stone
was on the wells mouth now all the
flocks would be gathered there and they
would roll the stone from the wells
mouth water the sheep and put the stone
back in its place on the wells mouth and
Jacob said to them my brethren where are
you from we are from here and do you
know Laban the son of Nahor we know him
is he well he is well and look his
daughter Rachel is coming with the Sheep
look it is still high day there's not
time for the cattle to be gathered
together what are the sheep and go and
feed them we cannot until all the flocks
are gathered together and they have
rolled the stone from the wells mouth
then we water the Sheep now while he was
still speaking with them Rachel came
with her father's sheep for she was a
shepherdess
and it came to pass when Jacob saw
Rachel the daughter of Laban his
mother's brother and the sheep of Laban
his mother's brother that Jacob went
near and rolled the stone from the wells
mouth and watered the flock of Laban his
mother's brother
then Jacob kissed Rachel and lifted up
his voice and wept and Jacob told Rachel
that he was her father's relative and
that he was Rebecca's son so she ran and
told her father that it came to pass
when Laban heard the report about Jacob
his sister's son but he ran to meet him
and embraced him and kissed him and
brought him to his house so he told
Laban all these things and Laban said to
him surely you are my bone and my flesh
and he stayed with him for a month then
Laban said to Jacob because you are my
relative should you therefore serve me
for nothing tell me what should your
wages be
now Laban had two daughters the name of
the elder was Leah and the name of the
younger was Rachel Leah's eyes were
delicate but Rachel was beautiful of
form and appearance now Jacob loved
Rachel so he said I will serve you seven
years for Rachel your younger daughter
it is better that I give her to you than
that I should give her to another man
stay with me
so Jacob served seven years for Rachel
and they seemed only a few days to him
because of the love he had for her then
Jacob said to Laban give me my wife for
my days are fulfilled that I may go into
her and Laban gathered together all the
men of the place and made a feast now it
came to pass in the evening that he took
Leah his daughter and brought her to
Jacob but and he went into her and Laban
gave his maid Zilpah
to his daughter Leah as a maid so it
came to pass in the morning that behold
it was Leah and he said to Laban what is
this you have done to me was it not for
Rachel that I served you why then have
you deceived me it must not be done so
in our country to give the younger
before the firstborn fulfill her weak
and we will give you this one also for
the service which you will serve with me
still another seven years then Jacob did
so and fulfilled her week
so he gave him his daughter Rachel as
wife also and Laban gave his maid Bill
her to his daughter Rachel as a maid
then Jacob also went into Rachel and he
also loved Rachel more than Leah and he
served with Laban still another seven
years
when the Lord saw that leah was unloved
he opened her womb but Rachel was barren
so Leah conceived and bore a son and she
called his name Reuben for she said the
Lord has surely looked on my affliction
now therefore my husband will love me
then she conceived again and bought a
son because the Lord has heard that I am
unloved he has therefore given me this
son also and she called his name Simeon
[Music]
she conceived again and bore a son now
this time my husband will become
attached to me because I have borne him
three sons therefore his name was called
Levi and she conceived again and bore a
son now I will praise the Lord therefore
she called his name Judah then she
stopped bearing
[Music]